When someone loses a spouse,
they are a widower.
When someone loses their parents,
they’re an orphan.
But there’s no word
for when you lose your children.
In 1948,
I was born in Brainerd, Minnesota.
We never had a Bible in our house.
I asked my dad one time about God,
and he said,
“Well, God knows everything.”
End of lesson.
My dad had hardening of the arteries.
In 1962, he died of a heart attack.
I’d just turned 13.
And my parents were
so close that my mother,
who had colon cancer,
she gave up the will to live.
So in February of the next year,
she died.
About 1972,
that’s when I met Pam.
I was born in Portland, Oregon.
I was one of those high-strung children.
I still am.
I worried about a lot of things.
I already had two children
by the time I met Larry,
and I didn’t want them
to inherit a world
that was just filled
with killing each other.
I joined a lot of the movements.
I marched in the peace marches
with thousands
and thousands of people.
So I thought,
‘Well, I’ll go door to door
for this particular candidate
because he’s antiwar.’
All these things I was doing
—to put forth all this effort
to change things—
it wasn’t working.
Pam and I had gotten married,
and Nikki was born.
We were just ecstatic
—very happy.
He had this croup,
and we took him to the hospital.
And there was a doctor there,
and he diagnosed it
as ataxia-telangiectasia.
And it’s a progressive disorder.
There’s no cure for it.
Pam was pregnant the second time,
and we had Nathaniel Thomas.
And he too had this condition
of ataxia.
I cried.
I cried and cried.
I cried my eyes out during that time.
So the Witnesses found me,
and they just kept calling
and talking to me
and being so kind to me.
When we studied that
Jesus talked
about the little sparrow
even is important to him,
and how much more important
a human is.
So that meant a lot to me.
After Pam was baptized,
I could see changes
that this was good for the family.
Once we were in the congregation,
everybody loved them,
and all the friends were wonderful.
She told me that I could study
with any brother
in the hall that I wanted;
just go ask him.
So I did.
That helped me to be
a better father
and to be a better husband.
Nineteen eighty-six,
October of that year,
our oldest boy, Nikki,
he fell asleep in death.
He was 13 when he died.
Our youngest boy, Nate,
was 16 when he died.
Debbie, she had melanoma,
and it had gone into her brain,
and she had brain tumors.
Well, she didn’t last
but a couple months,
and she fell asleep in death.
There we were;
we had a complete empty nest.
And about that time,
Pam got diagnosed with breast cancer.
The first chemotherapy,
there were two,
just about killed me.
It came really close
because it was hard
to even breathe sometimes.
Two bouts of breast cancer
—she kept on pioneering.
When Larry got hurt
falling through the ceiling,
the whole left side of his face
hit the corner of the metal wood stove
and broke it all the way through.
He had to be fed by a tube
through a little opening in his teeth.
Second Corinthians 1:3, 4
talks about “the God of all comfort.”
It’s easy to be comfortable
when everything is going well.
When these kinds of things happen,
to find true comfort
is within Jehovah’s organization.
You can go through something,
and you can still keep
a theocratic routine.
A theocratic routine
is what helps us to endure.
We knew that we would like to end
this system of things as pioneers.
Larry and I are out in service together
almost every single day.
We found that pioneering together
and having Bible studies together
is very powerful.
We helped
on a regional building project together.
It’s a wonderful spiritual time.
You don’t rely on yourself.
You have to rely on Jehovah.
When Jehovah loves you,
he takes care of you
—keeps you on your feet.
Every day I remember my children.
You don’t forget the people you love.
And if you love Jehovah,
you won’t forget him.
“God is love,”
and that love is what helps us
to be able to endure.